This is Part 1 of using Intercom.io for Marketing for Standupbot.com.

Today is Thursday for me. Thursdays are "business development" days. Doing one type of work in the day keeps my mind from exploding from context-switching between development, sales, or something else multiple times during the day. 

## Affiliate idea
I created a .pdf document that explains I want to give 30% revenue share to affiliates for each customer they send our way.  Much different than the typical offer that websites give when they want referrals from their current customers. 

I have a huge network of people that I could contact. I have tons of people in Intercom.io, LinkedIn, Facebook, Google, etc... The list goes on. Intercom.io is actually really expensive for us each month since we are not using the features to its full potential. I've pre-emptively cancelled my Intercom.io subscription. They allow me to use the platform for the rest of the month that I already paid for. I have 6 days to see if it's worth continuing to pay for. My plan is to figure out a way to use Intercom.io to contact all the people I have on that list to see if I can get them to be affiliates.

## First: look at the data
The first thing I need to do is to look through all the people that signed up a super long time ago. Take one person from that list and construct an email and see what it looks like. A rough stab at the first email would be an example below:

## Second: create the rought-draft of a template to start using

I need to be able to send an email that doesn't waste the persons time reading it. It needs to be short, quick, and to the point. Also I'll need to figure out what the goal of this first email should be. I'm not really worried about that right this second. Focusing on finishing this task and having some point of starting would be ideal. 

```
Subject: Corey, are you still using Slack?

Body: 
You signed up for Standupbot.com awhile ago. Not sure why your team stopped using Standupbot since we didn't have one of those fancy forms that collects that information since we were still in "startup mode". 

I wanted to see if you were still using Slack and if so, would you be interested in trying Standupbot.com if I were to give you an awesome deal?

Hope to hear from you soon, thanks.

ps - if you want to chat with me on the phone about this you can schedule a time quickly by going to http://calendly.com/cgrusden/15min

-
Corey Grusden
CEO Standupbot.com
```

# Setting up the "campaign" in Intercom.io

Intercom.io currently has "smart campaigns". Intercom.io makes it pretty easy. You setup a filter for the people in your Intercom CRM database. The people will enter the campaign automatically if any attributes of their account change at any time. My intial plan is I want to contact all the people in the past that signed up and used Standupbot.com before, but don't have a subscription anymore. I want those thousands of customers back! I figure I can email everyone a blanket email just asking if they still use Slack and start a conversation from there. 

Theres a few things that are going to be a problem for me from the beginning. There are two types of users: account owners and members of their team. Account owners are the users that entered their credit card. Early on in Standupbot, I didn't know that and the data in Intercom and Standupbot is different. I need to make sure the account owners in Intercom are tagged correctly. So I'm going to need to do that next before I do anything else.

# Making sure the data is correct

I love to use the programming language of Ruby. It's fun, easy, and quick. Intercom.io has a [rubygem](https://github.com/intercom/intercom-ruby). I want to create a script (I would say this is usually an 'easy' task, but **nothing** is ever easy) that will go through all the Account Owners in the Standupbot database and for each one I will use the rubygem to add a "tag" of "account_owner" within Intercom for those users. This will allow me to know if I'm sending an email to a person that is part of the team and doesnt really care about the billing information, but maybe they would want some extra help being more awesome with Standupbot. The inverse is what Im after. I want to know who the person who signed up for the account is becauase that person is the one that had the original business problem of finding a standup solution for thier remote slack teams.

Writing the script is a breeze. I will say that the first member of the team (before all the other team members were added) is the Account Owner. The script will look in Standupbot.com's database, find their email address since that will be the key the script uses to "look-up" the data in Intercom.io and then mark that user in Intercom.io as the account owner.

And before I do any of this, the script needs to go through intercom and delete all the tags so we start with a clean-slate. We don't want to add account owner tags to users and then leave the 10,000 other people that have the account owner tag in there since that defeats the purpose of this script. 

# Lets focus on the Account Owners first

If a past account owner gets the email I suspect there are a few states their in: 

* They cancelled their account with us way-back-when and still don't have a solution, but might want to re-sign up
* They cancelled their account because it was too expensive, but maybe they'll sign back up if it's not?
* They cancelled their account because their team just wasn't ready
* They cancelled their account and are using a competitor's software
* They cancelled their account because they thought their team was too small to use it
* They cancelled their account because they stopped doing standups online and went back to face-to-face

I don't know why they cancelled their account. Maybe that should be the first question and then we can go from there.

My original template stands true. So I think thats a good way to go about doing it

# Create the actual campaign

Now that I have a basic first question to start a conversation with the account owners and the data in Intercom has been cleaned up with the script, I can attack the first and most important issue before I try to sell Standupbot to these people: why did you cancel?

It might be nice to create a video with Quicktime and put it on Dropbox. This way, people can watch it and not see how many times it's been viewed if I were to put it on something like YouTube. Let me think about this since that would be extra stellar.

After putting a stake in the ground with the email at the beginning of this work and then asking myself why did these people cancel in the first place, I realized thats what I need to find out so I can be more **targeted** with what I send and to whom.  I want to modify the above email template I did and maybe make it a little less vague by asking the question of why they cancelled and see if they answer.

```
Subject: Corey, are you still using Slack and interested in giving Standupbot another try? 

Body: 
You signed up for Standupbot.com awhile ago. Not sure why your team stopped using Standupbot since we didn't have one of those fancy forms that collects that information since we were still in "startup mode". 

I wanted to see if you were still using Slack and if so, would you be able to tell me why you cancelled your Standupbot.com subscription?  I've come up with a list of reasons why I think you did, perhaps one is close to why you cancelled your subscription:

* You cancelled your account with us way-back-when and still don't have a solution, but might want to re-sign up?
* You cancelled your account because it was too expensive, but maybe you'll sign back up if it's more afforadable?
* You cancelled your account because your team just wasn't ready to use Agile methods?
* You cancelled your account and are using a competitor's software? If so, which one so I can go check out there product.
* You cancelled your account because you thought your team was too small to use Standupbot
* You cancelled your account because you stopped doing standups online and went back to face-to-face?

Hope to hear from you soon, thanks.

ps - if you want to chat with me on the phone about this you can schedule a time quickly by going to http://calendly.com/cgrusden/15min

-
Corey Grusden
CEO Standupbot.com
Schedule a call with me if you have questions and want to hear my voice: http://calendly.com/cgrusden/15min
```

That seems a little better to me. What I'll want to do is create a Smart campaign. The title is "Capture business from past customers". The filter will be for Account Owners that do not have a subscription currently and cancelled their account over 2 months ago. That should get me a solid amount of people. 

This was part 1 of the users in Intercom. Part 2 will be focused on what to do about the 1,000's of people that are non Account owners.

