---
title: 'How to beat Anxiety'
---

I've lived with anxiety for a long time. Years. Mostly hypochondriac shit. Boils down to fear and with fear comes panic. Often. It's been a motherfucker. The past 2 years though, i've really been focused on "curing" my anxiety. One of my buddies who had a bout of anxiety had given me a book. He's a super smart guy and is an executive at a very successful company so I trusted his research whe he handed me the book in private. 

The book was Dr. Claire Weekes' "Help and Hope for your Nerves". Words cannot describe how much this one book has helped. It's like your grandmother talking to you. You can't read it once and be "cured" though. You have to treat it like the bible. You have to read it often. You don't need to read it every single day, but reading it quite often will help remind you what you're going through. 

I had written out my personal experience with anxiety and then promptly deleted it. And then re-wrote it again and then deleted it again. For this post, I'm just recording the fact for others that have anxiety and panic to read Dr Weekes' book and to use it as a bible, or maybe read it when you read your bible for those that do that daily, and just trust what she's saying. I completely believe that 99% of all anxiety cases out there can be solved with the things she teaches in this book. 

[Here is a link to the book](https://www.amazon.com/Hope-and-Help-for-Your-Nerves-audiobook/dp/B008XDXMAQ). Get the paperback to keep on you at all times, and travel with, and get the kindle version so you always have it on your phone or laptop


